\input texinfo
@documentencoding UTF-8

@ifnottex
@paragraphindent 0
@end ifnottex
@titlepage
@title CXKCDPASS
May 12, 2022
@end titlepage

@node Top
@top CXKCDPASS

@menu
* NAME::
* SYNOPSIS::
* DESCRIPTION::
* OPTIONS::
* EXAMPLES::
* BUGS::
* AUTHOR::
* COPYRIGHT & LICENSE::
@end menu

@node NAME
@chapter NAME
@anchor{#name}
cxkcdpass - generate random passphrases from wordlist(s)

@node SYNOPSIS
@chapter SYNOPSIS
@anchor{#synopsis}
@strong{cxkcdpass} [@emph{OPTION}@dots{}]

@node DESCRIPTION
@chapter DESCRIPTION
@anchor{#description}
A password generator which generates strong passphrases from wordlists,
inspired by @uref{https://xkcd.com/936/,XKCD 936}. Based on
@uref{https://github.com/redacted/XKCD-password-generator,xkcdpass}, a
Python implementation, whereas @code{cxkcdpass} is implemented in
@code{C}, therefore the c in cxkcdpass.

@verbatim
$ cxkcdpass
> coroner nutlike sandbank remarry judge yesterday
@end verbatim

@node OPTIONS
@chapter OPTIONS
@anchor{#options}
@table @asis
@item @strong{-h}, @strong{--help}

Print help and exit
@item @strong{-V}, @strong{--version}

Print version and exit
@item @strong{-w} @emph{WORDFILE}, @strong{--wordfile}=@emph{WORDFILE}

Specify that the file @emph{WORDFILE} contains the list of valid words
from which to generate passphrases. Multiple wordfiles can be provided.
Provided wordfiles: @code{eff-long}, @code{eff-short},
@code{eff-special}, @code{legacy}, @code{spa-mich} (Spanish),
@code{fin-kotus} (Finnish), @code{fr-freelang} (French),
@code{fr-corrected.txt} (French), @code{pt-ipublicis} (Portuguese),
@code{ita-wiki} (Italian), @code{ger-anlx} (German),
@code{eff_large_de_sample.wordlist} (German), @code{nor-nb} (Norwegian)
(default=@code{eff-long})
@item @strong{-m}, @strong{--min}=@emph{MIN_LENGTH}

Generate passphrases containing words with at least @emph{MIN_LENGTH}
characters.
@item @strong{-M}, @strong{--max}=@emph{MAX_LENGTH}

Generate passphrases containing words with at most @emph{MAX_LENGTH}
characters.
@item @strong{-n}, @strong{--num-words}=@emph{NUM_WORDS}

Generate passphrases containing exactly @emph{NUM_WORDS} words.
@item @strong{-r}, @strong{--regex-match}=@emph{REGEX}

Limit passphrases to only include words matching the regex pattern
@emph{REGEX} (e.g.@ @code{'\^[a-z]*$'}).
@item @strong{-v}, @strong{--verbose}

Report various metrics for given options and general verbose output.
@end table

@node EXAMPLES
@chapter EXAMPLES
@anchor{#examples}
@table @asis
@item @strong{cxkcdpass}

Prints a random passphrase
@item @strong{cxkcdpass -w ./my-list-of-words.txt}

Prints a random passphrase based on words in ./my-list-of-words.txt
@item @strong{cxkcdpass -n 10}

Prints a random passphrase with 10 words
@end table

@node BUGS
@chapter BUGS
@anchor{#bugs}
Report bugs and issues on GitHub:
@url{https://github.com/chrillefkr/cxkcdpass/issues}

@node AUTHOR
@chapter AUTHOR
@anchor{#author}
Christopher Janzon
@uref{mailto:git@@christopherjanzon.com,git@@christopherjanzon.com}

@node COPYRIGHT & LICENSE
@chapter COPYRIGHT & LICENSE
@anchor{#copyright-license}
Copyright © 2022 Christopher Janzon

This work is free. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License, Version 2, as
published by Sam Hocevar. See the COPYING file for more details.

@bye
